Thank you for downloading version 1.0 of ITVal, an iptables configuration
verification and analysis tool.  

Version 1.0 features RPM and DPKG packages of the tool, as well as several new
features and a few minor bug fixes in calculation of equivalence classes and
parsing.

IMPORTANT NOTE: Version 1.0 breaks compatibility with pre-release versions 0.7
and lower of the tool.  Query files created for versions 0.7 and lower may not
work with this version or may generate unexpected results.  See below for more
details.

What's new in 1.0?
------------------
*Witnesses and Counter-examples (for Assertions)

If you insert the keyword "EXAMPLE" at the beginning of your assertion, ITVal
will generate a packet illustating why the assertion failed or, if the
assertion holds, a packet that honors the assertion.

For example, you can use:

ASSERT EXAMPLE FROM 192.168.2.* AND NOT INFACE eth1 SUBSET OF DROPPED FORWARD;

To test whether a packet from 192.168.2.0/24 can show up on interface
eth1 without being dropped.  If the assertion fails, ITVal will show you
a packet from 192.168.2.0/24 that can arrive on eth1 without being
dropped by the firewall.

*Changes to queries and assertions:

The semantics of a the ACCEPT and DROPPED keywords have changed so that
queries no longer take an "input_chain" argument.  Instead, this
argument should be passed to the "ACCEPTED" or "DROPPED" keyword.  

This change BREAKS COMPATABILITY with old query files.  To convert old
files to the new syntax, replace the "input_chain" parameter from each
query with an "AND ACCEPTED <input_chain>" at the end of the query.  For
instance:

QUERY SADDY INPUT FROM 192.168.2.* AND IN NEW;

would become:

QUERY SADDY (FROM 192.168.2.* AND IN NEW) AND ACCEPTED INPUT;

What is not provided in release 1.0?
------------------------------------
1.  Support for non-iptables filters.

ITVal does not filters for platforms other than Linux. Because
maintaining parsers for other languages is costly and time-consuming, it
is unlikely that I will be adding support for other platforms.  However,
I do intend to create an API for writing language modules, so if you
want to see your platform supported, you will have the tools to add
support for that language.  I am working with Alain Mayer at redseal.org
to generate conversion tools from redseal's excellent security tool to
work with ITVal an vice-versa.  You can also obtain tools for converting
from ipfw or ipchains to iptables at http://www.stearns.org.

2.  Support for application level filtering.

ITVal is designed to work only with packet-filters.  While, in theory,
ITVal could be extended to other uses, such as e-mail filtering, to do
so would require a significant overhaul of the internal design.

3.  A fancy graphical front-end.

Work on the GUI continues slowly as we decide what to provide through the
interface and refactor the code to make it more amenable to graphical
manipulation.

4.  Support for dynamic firewalls

ITVal can process a ``snapshot in time'' of a firewall, but has no query
capabilities for analyzing the evolution of firewalls over time.

What is coming in future versions of ITVal?
-------------------------------------------
1.  Guided repair
ITVal will generate a list of suggested changes to the rule set that satisfy
all the assertions in a query file.

2.  Translations
Aleksandr Shubnik has volunteered to provide Russian translations for ITVal.  
Hopefully, others will join the team to provide translations in other languages.

3.  A Graphical Front-End
Yes, really!  I am leaning now toward a QT-based interface that will allow the
user to manipulate queries in a text-editing environment and then check them in
real time against the rule set.  The old, klugy, python/TK attempt was not
very portable and introduced problems with paths.
